# Thyme
## Inspiration
Are you someone who struggles with a bad habit? Do you have a difficult time developing and implementing a new routine into your life? Or perhaps you simply find it a little difficult to manage a healthy work-life balance. To be completely candid, we are all of the things mentioned above. Thanks to the global pandemic, we as a society were forced into unknown territories, completely disrupting our comfortable "norm". With these changes, both research & personal experience have showcased that student retention rates are at an all time low, while procrastination is on its way to the moon. Our team put together some thoughtful considerations in methods that could be utilized to help resolve this rather oppressive issue. That's when the idea struck. What if we could aide our users to help develop healthier habits over time while serving as a catalyst of relaxation. With a wide array of features and some intensive YouTube tutorials, we proudly present you _Thyme_, the platform that could help you finally knock that bad habit of yours.
## What it does
_Thyme_ was built for user friendliness. In comparison to other productivity apps out there (Notion, Obsidian, etc.), _Thyme_ requires little to no setup at all. With each component/feature of the platform easily defined with purpose, a fresh user will be able to easily navigate themselves around with little to no troubles. For instance, _Thyme_ features 3 distinct functionalities (Pomodoro Timer, Habit Tracker, Take A Breath), all readily accessible at the hands of the user.
### **Pomodoro Timer**
The Pomodoro technique is a time management technique that has become frequently more popular among the student population. The technique encourages users to work with the time they have, rather than against it. Segmented into 3 different categories (Work, Break, Rest), users will be able to find a proper balance in maintaining a health work-life balance. 
### _Time Breakdown_
Work = 25 mins, Break = 5 mins, Rest = 15 mins | Complete 4 reps of Work + Break before taking a Rest!

### **Habit Tracker**
Our most prized feature, users will be able to input Habit's they would like to work-on/cultivate into our tracker to get started! Once the user inputs a Habit, a push email or notification will be sent to the user at the same time everyday, gently reminding them to perform their habit/task. As further motivation, we are also hoping to implement a "streak" feature, akin to those by Duolingo or Snapchat, incrementing every day the user completes their habit. This not only adds a sense of motivation, but also helps the user commit to their end goals. Our streaks will be demonstrated through the growth of a Thyme plant, the more days the user completes, the more the plant will flourish! Vice versa, if a user misses a day/breaks the streak, the plant will wilt and die. _The streak feature will be implemented in the future_
### **Take a Breath**
This feature focuses on the users mental well-being, ensuring that they aren't over working and burning themselves out. With a soothing & comfortable UI, users can follow along with the on-screen animation - partaking in a calming breathing exercise. Due to Mental Health being one of the leading factors of poor work habits, we hope we can aide each user and be there to help calm those stressful times. As a fun side-feature, our home screen constantly filters through motivational quotes every few mins, so that inspiration is never too far off.
## How we built it
First brainstorming potential ideas on FigJam, than conceptualizing our project on Figma, and finally bringing it into reality with VS Code. We also made use of Firebase to help host our entire project. Making use of a thorough planning process has definitely aided our progress and provided us with an opportunity to dream to our limits. Collaborative teamwork goes along way when all hands are on deck, from front & back end development to graphic design - hackathons truly do harness our fiery team spirit.
## Challenges we ran into
We ran into difficulties in the feasibility of this project. With so many features in mind, it was difficult to scale it back and implement only the most user impactful options we could develop. Following the key pillars of Productivity, Lifestyle, & Mental Wellbeing, we conceptualized our 3 functionalities. 
## Accomplishments that we're proud of
As "new comers" to the hackathon scene, simply putting ourselves out there brings us great joy - especially since we're doing things we love. We were ecstatic once our idea came to fruition and hyped for the real world implementation. Every milestone we reached was cherished, and every bug _debugged_ was an exhilarating feeling. However, the greatest thing that we valued is our ability to work cohesively together as one unit - not being afraid to voice our thoughts & bounce off of each others ideas.
## What we learned
This was the first time utilizing VS shared code/extension, as well as prototyping using Figma. Firebase was also a completely new option for us as well. These were amazing experiences/platforms that we got to learn and hone our skills on. Will be definitely looking to further mastering the abundance of resources we're lucky enough to have.
## What's next for Thyme
Definitely going to be looking into mobile development. Initially we wanted to create _Thyme_ for the mobile market, but thought it was wise to experiment + flesh it out on a computer  interface. An improvement to the applications personalization abilities is also something we can't wait to implement!
